---
layout: post
title:  I wish someone had told me...
date:   2019-09-05 15:00:00 +1000
categories: [journal, parenting]
summary: I wish someone had told me...
---
My baby has arrived early September 2019, a little bit ahead of the schedule, and taking us by surprise. On one night, we jumped out of our bed and rushed to the hospital only to learn we're about to begin a new chapter of our life.

"I wish someone had told me" - I remember my partner going through various books and internet resources after we found we were expecting a baby. Some of them painting "a real picture" of pregnancy, childbirth and having a baby… and furtherly defining "real" as mostly painful and traumatising.

I'm not going to tell you, that pregnancy, childbirth, and early parenthood is a walk in a park. Neither I'll claim, this blog will give you the universal real picture. Experience like that is coming from our journeys and each journey is unique. I found our pregnancy enjoyable and rewarding, and the birth went quite smooth (well at least in the retrospect… and from the point of view of a person who didn't push a small watermelon out of his body). 

It doesn't mean it was easy and straightforward. There were times when we were anxious, clueless, or dreaded with any thought related to baby and preparations we need to undertake. Things weren't going according to plan and we got our fair share of stress and pain. Of course one could paint the same journey in darker colours, but we decided not to. 

I decided my version of the "real" story is the one that is worth reliving over again. The main reason being nobody told me that I have a hidden vault of love dedicated to this tiny person. A vault that opened wide with the sight of his first breath drew in this world. This experience is unexplainable and have to be lived through. 

I don't even know if people can convey this kind of feelings. I've committed to being there with my partner and experience from the pregnancy and birth everything a dad or a partner can. I wanted to be there, in the moment, with my partner and our baby when he was growing in her safe belly, coming to this world and in his first months with us.

The moment of my baby boy taking his first bubbly and choky breath left me speechless. And it was when I truly realised the difference between having a child and being a dad. Having a child is something external while becoming a dad is an internal transformation. 

If there is one thing I want to tell you right now - if you're becoming a dad, it's once in the lifetime experience, make the most of it. Be a dad.